README.md, before:

# The Current Problem

Startups generally have three major risks associated with them:

1. They are building something badly (bad execution)
2. They focus completely on the product, neglecting users acquisition (bad marketing)
3. There are “behind the scenes” problems (bad team)

We feel that the current accelerator and seed-investment models often do not adequately address these points.

We propose a new model: the Full Service Incubator. The founder(s) bring the idea and, most importantly, vertical domain expertise and contacts. The Incubator then services aspects of the startup, up until the point that it can stand by itself. In return, the incubator would take an equity stake in the business.

We have witnessed a lot of startups make the same avoidable mistakes, adding considerable risk to their business.

## Bad Execution

If the founders are not technical, the most common mistake we see is one of bad execution. The build is either outsourced, often offshore, given to a local one-man-band, or attempted in-house. All of these avenues carry considerable risk.

Offshore companies are extremely hard to judge, and often produce very poor quality work. One-man-bands dissappear for months on end, or lose project focus and cause long delays. In house development is often carried out in a moonlighting manner, again causing delays and a lack of focus.

Design, Brand, UX and UI are often not given sufficient consideration (if it all).

The gap between being "almost finished" and being ready to launch is almost always underestimated; conversely founders typically wait too long to launch.

## Bad Marketing

Founders initially have two core tasks: building the product, and attracting users. It is much easier to feel in control of the product, as there is typically a direct correlation between input (time, effort) and output (a developing product). Marketing the product and getting traction is a lot more obscure; some channels will yield little or no benefit, no matter how much effort is applied.

Time and again we have seen founders seek comfort in dedicating their time to developing the product, at the expense of finding users. Marketing is often given very little or no consideration whatsoever, along with a vague assumption that "if we build it, they will come". This is a classic mistake that can be mitigated with a parallel stream of marketing whilst the MVP is built, ensuring that, however challenging it may be, it is critical to spend time and effort on marketing.

## Bad Team

In the scramble to get the idea built, founders often ignore serious risks around the team. People who have met on a handful of occasions start companies together, piling on the risk of a falling out down the road. Developers who do not have the right, relevant experience to the startup are deemed “good enough” and hired.

Company structure, remuneration, stock allocation and legal documentation are often done in a haphazard and inconsistent manner, if at all, increasing the likelihood of a falling out.

Compounding this problem, startups operate in an intensely competitive market for talent. Good team members leave for a better opportunity, setting the company back.

# The Incubator model

We feel that a full-service incubator model can significantly reduce these risks.

The incubator would provide any or all of the following:

- Seed Funding
- Legal and accounting documentation and advice
- Office space
- Validating the idea; talking to potential users
- Design and Brand
- UX/UI
- Marketing (Social, PR, Content Marketing, SEO/SEM)
- Build (Web, Mobile etc)
- Infrastructure and ongoing maintenance
- Introductions and help with follow-on funding and new business
- Mentoring

The founders work “on” the business and the incubator works “in” the business. As the company grows, it can take in-house aspects of these functions as and when appropriate.

The incubator would leverage the expertise and production abilities of the 3 companies owned by the founders, in a "not for profit" manner:

- Solid State Group: A digital agency (£2M turnover)
- Square Circle: A design agency (£350k turnover)
- The Hoxton Mix: A Shoreditch-based co-working space (11,000 sq/ft of space)

We also have a network of proven relationships with companies (both on and off-shore) that can help with production aspects of the business. Some, e.g. legal, would work pro-bono on the basis of a commitment of follow-on work as and when it comes.

One structural limitation to this model is that we would not operate  "cohorts" of startups. The process would necessitate a steady stream of new businesses, all at different stages, being pushed through the pipeline.We are looking for financing to boot-strap the incubator and begin the deal-flow.

Commit message:

More ideas about company process

README.md, after:

# The Current Problem

Startups generally have three major risks associated with them:

1. They are building something badly (bad execution)
2. They focus completely on the product, neglecting users acquisition (bad marketing)
3. There are “behind the scenes” problems (bad team)

We feel that the current accelerator and seed-investment models often do not adequately address these points.

We propose a new model: the Full Service Incubator. The founder(s) bring the idea and, most importantly, vertical domain expertise and contacts. The Incubator then services aspects of the startup, up until the point that it can stand by itself. In return, the incubator would take an equity stake in the business.

We have witnessed a lot of startups make the same avoidable mistakes, adding considerable risk to their business.

## Bad Execution

If the founders are not technical, the most common mistake we see is one of bad execution. The build is either outsourced, often offshore, given to a local one-man-band, or attempted in-house. All of these avenues carry considerable risk.

Offshore companies are extremely hard to judge, and often produce very poor quality work. One-man-bands dissappear for months on end, or lose project focus and cause long delays. In house development is often carried out in a moonlighting manner, again causing delays and a lack of focus.

Design, Brand, UX and UI are often not given sufficient consideration (if it all).

The gap between being "almost finished" and being ready to launch is almost always underestimated; conversely founders typically wait too long to launch.

## Bad Marketing

Founders initially have two core tasks: building the product, and attracting users. It is much easier to feel in control of the product, as there is typically a direct correlation between input (time, effort) and output (a developing product). Marketing the product and getting traction is a lot more obscure; some channels will yield little or no benefit, no matter how much effort is applied.

Time and again we have seen founders seek comfort in dedicating their time to developing the product, at the expense of finding users. Marketing is often given very little or no consideration whatsoever, along with a vague assumption that "if we build it, they will come". This is a classic mistake that can be mitigated with a parallel stream of marketing whilst the MVP is built, ensuring that, however challenging it may be, it is critical to spend time and effort on marketing.

## Bad Team

In the scramble to get the idea built, founders often ignore serious risks around the team. People who have met on a handful of occasions start companies together, piling on the risk of a falling out down the road. Developers who do not have the right, relevant experience to the startup are deemed “good enough” and hired.

Company structure, remuneration, stock allocation and legal documentation are often done in a haphazard and inconsistent manner, if at all, increasing the likelihood of a falling out.

Compounding this problem, startups operate in an intensely competitive market for talent. Good team members leave for a better opportunity, setting the company back.

# The Incubator model

We feel that a full-service incubator model can significantly reduce these risks.

The incubator would provide any or all of the following:

- Seed Funding
- Legal and accounting documentation and advice
- Office space
- Customer development: talking to potential users
- Design and Brand
- UX/UI
- Marketing (Social, PR, Content Marketing, SEO/SEM)
- Build (Web, Mobile etc)
- Infrastructure and ongoing maintenance
- Introductions and help with follow-on funding and new business
- Mentoring

The founders work “on” the business and the incubator works “in” the business. As the company grows, it can take in-house aspects of these functions as and when appropriate.

The incubator would leverage the expertise and production abilities of the 3 companies owned by the founders, in a "not for profit" manner:

- Solid State Group: A digital agency (£2M turnover)
- Square Circle: A design agency (£350k turnover)
- The Hoxton Mix: A Shoreditch-based co-working space (11,000 sq/ft of space)

We also have a network of proven relationships with companies (both on and off-shore) that can help with production aspects of the business. Some, e.g. legal, would work pro-bono on the basis of a commitment of follow-on work as and when it comes.

One structural limitation to this model is that we would not operate  "cohorts" of startups. The process would necessitate a steady stream of new businesses, all at different stages, being pushed through the pipeline.We are looking for financing to boot-strap the incubator and begin the deal-flow.

# The Process

## Product

In order to accelerate companies as efficient as possible, we would aim to have each one follow the same workflow. Each company may be terminated at any point in the process.

1. Interview the team. Qualitatively validate the idea.
2. Build an MVP.
3. Perform customer development based on the MVP.
4. Product iteration until product/market fit.
5. Scale up team and business.

## Business

Each company is different. Consequently the following process and in particular the timing of each step will change from company to company.

1. Sign 1-page "heads of terms" with founders.
2. Build MVP.
3. Validate idea.
4. Incorporate limited company.
5. Raise SEIS round.
6. Raise EIS round.
